?Scanned paranasal sinuses are clear. 

? Extra axial hemorrhage
 A well defined extra axial (elliptical or cresentic shaped) hematoma is seen in the …… (Mention the site of the lesion).
It showed ……….. Mention the signal changes in T1 and T2WIs as described with the intra cerebral hematoma however,

•	The subdural hematoma may show sedimentation level, then you mention the signal changes of its upper and lower components.
•	No edema is present in cases of epidurall or subdural hematoma.
•	No hemosidren seen in there cases [usually].
 
? Sub arachnoid hemorrhage is not assessed by MRI, if so, you can follow 
the same items used for CT and remember to change the densities to signal intensities.
?Fresh blood signal is seen smearing the cortical sulci and extra axial CSF 
 spaces ? extension into the ventricular system showing dark signal in T2  WIs

NB	You cannot see acute subarachnoid blood in T1 WIs 

Also mention that the ventricular system is dilated denoting the presence of communicating hydrocephalus which is usually seen in cases of subarachnoid 
 hemorrhage.
?Normal posterior fossa (if the lesion is not in the posterior fossa).
?Scanned paranasal sinuses are clear. 

 
? Brain infarction
? A well defined area of abnormal signal intensity is seen in …. [mention the 
site of the lesion]. It showed low signal in T1WIs and high signal in T2 and FLAIR images.
? Not included [we do not usually measure the size of the infarct]                             
? No intra cerebral or extra axial hematoma or blood degradation produce .
OR   foci of blood signal are seen within the lesion in cases of hemorrhagic 
infarction. The blood signal you will see is either   
•	Acute blood [intermediate signal in T1 and dark signal in T2]  [Deoxy HB] OR
•	Sub acute blood [high signal in both T1 and T2WIs] [extra cellular met HB].
? Normal posterior fossa [if the lesion is not in the posterior fossa].
? Scanned paranasal sinuses are clear.

?Lacunar infarction
? A small well defined lesion of abnormal signal intensity is seen …..  
      [Mention the site of the lesion]. It showed low signal in T1WIs and high   
      signal in T2 and FLAIR WIs and exerts no mass effect on the adjacent  
      structures.
NB 	Old lacunar infarct will show low signal in T1 and FLAIR images with 
high signal in T2WIs [CSF signal].
 
NB 	The same rule is applied for cases with multiple infarcts.
? Normal size and configuration of the ventricular system with no midline   
       shift.
OR   Symmetrical dilation of the cerebral ventricles with prominence of extra axial CSF spaces [in old patients with brain atrophic changes]
?No intra cerebral or extra axial hemorrhage or blood degradation products.
?Normal posterior fossa [if the lesion is not in the posterior fossa].
? Scanned paranasal sinuses are clear.



 
? Sub cortical arteriosclerotic encephalopathy
?  Exaggerated periventricular white matter signal intensity in all pulse 
 sequences denoting sub cortical ischemic changes.
NB Lacunar infarcts may be seen in cases with subcortical arteriosclerotic 
encephalopathy, then you describe these infarcts as mentioned before. 

 ? Normal size and configuration of the ventricular system with no midline 
     shift.
OR   Symmetrical dilation of the cerebral ventricles with prominence of 
extra axial CSF spaces [in old patients with brain atrophic changes]
? No intra cerebral or extra axial hemorrhage or blood degradation products.
? Normal posterior fossa [if the lesion is not in the posterior fossa].
? Scanned paranasal sinuses are clear
 
Space occupying lesion [tumor, abscess,…]
Points to be evaluated:
•	Definition (well defined, ill-defined)
•	Shape (rounded, oval, irregular, …)
•	Size----x ----x ----cm in maximal AP, transverse and cranio caudal diameters respectively
•	Site (frontal, temproparietal , …, brain stem, cerebellum,..)(Left or right).
•	Enhancement (no, homogenous, heterogenous, marginal, …)
•	Surrounding edema (if present)(grade I,II,III) Low signal in T1 and high signal in T2 WIs
?	Grade I =  area less than 2 cm around the lesion 
?	Grade II = area more than 2 cm but less than 1/2 the cerebral hemisphere in which the lesion is present.
?	Grade III = area more than 1/2 the cerebral hemisphere in which the lesion is present
•	Mass effect which includes: 
?	Effacement of the cortical sulci
?	Compression of the ventricle
?	Midline shift.
?Meningioma
 ? A well defined oval shaped SOL is seen in the …. [Mention the site of the 
Lesion]. It showed low signal in T1WIs and high signal in T2WIs.

NB 	Some meningioma shows intermediate signal in both T1 and T2WIs 
NB	Some meningiomas may contain low signal foci within the tumor mass representing calcification or signal void blood vessels.
? The lesion measures …x…..x….. cm in maximal AP, transverse and 
crainio caudal diameters respectively and showed homogenous pattern of contrast enhancement.
NB 	An enhancing dural tail may be identified and should be mentioned. A 
localized area of calverial bone thickening may be seen at the base of the meningioma, this area will show persistent low signal in all pulse sequences [bone sclerosis similar to cortical bone]. 
? The lesion is surrounded by grade --- perifocal brain edema showing low   
      signal in T1 and high signal in T2 WIs. 
     The lesion and edema exert a  mass effect in the form of -------, --------, -----
? Normal posterior fossa (if the lesion is not in the posterior fossa).
? Scanned Para nasal sinuses are clear 
OR  Scanned Para nasal sinuses showed mucosal thickening in the 
 ----,----- (mention the name of the affected sinuses ) denoting sinusitis.

?Space occupying lesion
     Astrocytoma / Glioma 
? A well defined [or an ill – defined], ------[mention the shape of the lesion 
       oval, irregular,…]  shaped SOL is seen in the -----[mention the site of the 
       lesion]                                        
? If the lesion is not enhanced then write [Showing no evidence 
       of post contrast enhancement]
OR 	Showing heterogenous (or marginal) enhancement with central 
areas of  necrosis and breakdown.
OR	The lesion is mainly cystic with an enhancing mural nodule measuring….cm in maximal transverse diameters [mention the measurement of the  cyst and nodule]
