
NB	Extension into the cavernous sinus is diagnosed by the presence of 
tumor tissue lateral to the internal carotid artery.

NB	Also mention that the internal carotid artery is patent showing normal signal void [usual finding].

NB	Infrasellar extension with erosion of the sellar floor and invasion of the 
sphenoid sinus indicate that the adenoma is invasive then you mention in the conclusion of the report that the adenoma is invasive and do not say malignant .
? Usually there is no edema, but mass effect may be present in the form of  
    compression of the 3rd  ventricle with consequent obstructive hydrocephalic  
    changes of both lateral ventricles. 
? If there is no retrosellar extension, you mention that the posterior fossa  
      structures are normal
? Scanned Para nasal sinuses are clear 
OR 	Scanned Paranasal sinuses showed mucosal  thickening in the --,------ (mention the name of the affected sinuses ) denoting sinusitis.
NB	In cases of microadenoma you can say 
? A well defined small focal lesion is seen within the ----- (left or right) aspect 
      of the pituitary gland.
? The lesion usually shows less enhancement compared o the normal 
       pituitary tissue and may be associated with the following:
?	Focal contour bulge  of the superior or inferior surface of the pituitary gland (best seen in coronal images).
?	Deviation of the infundibular stalk to the opposite (or may be to the same side)(also seen in coronal images).
? The lesion is totally enclosed within the sella with no extrasellar  
      extensions, no  edema, and no mass effect.
? Mention that the cerebral parenchyma and ventricles appear normal with 
      no midline shift, also mention that the posterior fossa   
      structures are normal
? Scanned Para nasal sinuses are clear 
OR 	Scanned Para nasal sinuses showed mucosal  thickening in the --,------ (mention the name of the affected sinuses ) denoting sinusitis.

Intracranial calcification
•	Most of the intracranial calcifications are not usually seen on MR images
•	CT is the examination of choice in these cases
•	In cases of gyral calcification, MR is usually helpful in detection of associated vascular malformation as well as the enlargement of the ipsilateral choroids plexus.

Aneurysm
?A well defined rounded ------x----- cm [mention the measurements of the 
     lesion] lesion is seen in the ------- [mention the site] common sites include:
•	Suprasellar region to the left or right of the midline plane    
•	Within the sylvian fissure.
•	In the prepontain cistern [basilar tip aneurysm]

? The lesion showed signal void in all pulse sequences denoting patent 
      lumen.

NB	If the lesion is more than 2cm in diameter [gaint aneurysm] it may show internal thrombosis then you can say that the lesion showed variable signal intensities in all pulse sequences with characteristic layring due to  turbulence of flow clearly seen in T2 WIs.
	The patient lumen show signal void in all pulse sequences while the thrombosed lumen showed mixture of low and high signals representing the stages of intraluminal clot [deoxy- Hb, met- Hb,..]

?Normal size and configuration of the ventricular system with no midline 
    shift.
? Normal posterior fossa (if no lesions are present in the posterior fossa ).
? Scanned Para nasal sinuses are clear 
