OR 	Scanned Para nasal sinuses showed mucosal  thickening in the --,------ (mention the name of the affected sinuses ) denoting sinusitis.

?Aneurysm rupture
?A well defined rounded ------x----- cm [mention the measurement of the 
     lesion] lesion is seen in the ------- [mention the site] common sites include:
•	Suprasellar region to the left or right of the midline plane    
•	Within the sylvian fissure.
•	In the prepontain cistern [basilar tip aneurysm]
? The lesion is surrounded by an irregular shaped area of recent blood   
      signal [intermediate signal in T1 and dark signal in T2 
      WIs] measuring -------X ------- cm in diameters 

NB	We do not usually inject contrast in these cases
? The ventricles are usually dilated and may contain fresh blood signal then   
      you can say: mild or moderate symmetrical dilatation of the supra and 
      infratentorial  cerebral ventricles ? periventricular edema due to retrograde   
      transependymal CSF permeation ? intraventricular recent blood signal 
     seen in the ------------ (mention the affected ventricles).
? If blood is present in the 4th ventricle then you can say : normal 
     appearance of the brain stem and cerebellum, but do not write the usual  
     statement.
? Scanned Para nasal sinuses are clear 
OR 	Scanned Para nasal sinuses showed mucosal  thickening in the --,------ (mention the name of the affected sinuses ) denoting sinusitis.

?Arteriovenous malformation
? A well defined area of abnormal vascularity is seen ----- [mention the site of the lesion] showing serpigenous signal void vascular channels.
? Perifocal brain edema may present and a mild mass effect may be also 
     seen then you should mention these findings.

NB	Ischemic areas in the region of the AVM will appear of low signal in T1 and high signal in T2 WIs due to direct shunting of blood from the arterial to the venous side.
?Normal size and configuration of the ventricular system with no midline 
    shift.
? Normal posterior fossa (if no lesions are present in the posterior fossa ).
? Scanned Para nasal sinuses are clear 
OR 	Scanned Para nasal sinuses showed mucosal  thickening in the --,------ (mention the name of the affected sinuses ) denoting sinusitis.

?Cavernous hemangioma 
? A well defined intraaxial lesion of abnormal signal is seen---- [mention the site of the lesion]
      The lesion showed high signal in all pulse sequences with a well defined
      margin of marked hypointensity specially noted in T2 WIs.
      The lesion measures -------X ----- cm in maximal diameters and showed no
      appreciable post contrast enhancement. 

NB	Minimal perifocal brain edema may be present around the lesion, then 
mention it and say showing low signal in T1 and high signal in T2 WIs. 

NB	No mass effect exerted by the lesion, if present you can say that the 
lesion  exerts minimal mass effect on the adjacent structures.

NB	In case of multiple lesions, you start to described the largest one [as mentioned above], then you say multiple similar lesions are seen in ---- [mention the site of each lesion]

?Normal size and configuration of the ventricular system with no midline 
    shift.
? Normal posterior fossa (if no lesions are present in the posterior fossa ).
? Scanned Para nasal sinuses are clear 
OR 	Scanned Para nasal sinuses showed mucosal  thickening in the --,------ (mention the name of the affected sinuses ) denoting sinusitis.


? Intra ventricular lesions    
?A well defined --------- shaped (mention the shape of the lesion) is seen -----    
     (mention the site of the lesion).
Possible sites include:
•	Centered on the region of the 4th ventricle midline posterior fossa.
•	Within the body or frontal horn of the lateral ventricle (left / right).
•	Centered at the anterior aspect of the 3rd ventricle.   
? The lesion showed intermediate signal in T1 WIs with high signal in T2 WIs  
      and  homogenous/ heterogenous pattern of post contrast enhancement   
      with ? foci of matrix calcifications. The surface of lesion appeared smooth     
      or  lobulated.
?The ipsilateral ventricle is dilated with ± per ventricular edema due to retrograde transependymal CSF permeation.  
 
NB	In cases of choired plexus papilloma , the whole ventricular system is 
dilated due to communicating hydrocephalus secondary to CSF over production by the lesion.
NB 	If the tumor has penetrated the wall of the ventricle it will initiate brain 
edema around, then maliganent transformation is suspected.
? Normal posterior fossa (if no lesions are present in the posterior fossa ).
? Scanned Para nasal sinuses are clear 
OR 	Scanned Para nasal sinuses showed mucosal  thickening in the --,------ (mention the name of the affected sinuses ) denoting sinusitis.
